pentest/tools.md, before:

# tools

Everything is from Linux perspective. It doens't mean some of them don't run on Windows but pentesting is generally performed from Linux. Of course once inside of Windows, there are Windows tools used and documented in a separate section below.

## training

- OWASP Security Shepherd

    https://github.com/OWASP/SecurityShepherd

- Metasploitable 2 & 3

        # msfadmin:msfadmin ;)
        wget http://downloads.metasploit.com/data/metasploitable/metasploitable-linux-2.0.0.zip

    https://github.com/rapid7/metasploitable3

## intelligence

- Semi-automatic OSINT framework and package manager

    https://github.com/kpcyrd/sn0int

- JARM is an active Transport Layer Security (TLS) server fingerprinting tool.

    https://github.com/salesforce/jarm

## web

- Waybackurls - Fetch all the URLs that the Wayback Machine knows about for a domain from archive.org

    https://github.com/tomnomnom/waybackurls

- LinkFinder - A python script that finds endpoints in JavaScript files

    https://github.com/GerbenJavado/LinkFinder

- Hakcheckurl -  Takes a list of URLs and returns their HTTP response codes

    https://github.com/hakluke/hakcheckurl

- Smuggler - An HTTP Request Smuggling / Desync testing tool written in Python 3

    https://github.com/defparam/smuggler

- Automatically find security vulnerabilities in your web applications while you are developing and testing your applications.

    https://github.com/zaproxy/zaproxy

- Templates Injection

    https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Server%20Side%20Template%20Injection#templates-injections

    https://github.com/epinna/tplmap

- Extract browser data

    https://github.com/moonD4rk/HackBrowserData

## remote shells

- dbd is a Netcat-clone, designed to be portable and offer strong encryption. It runs on Unix-like operating systems and on Microsoft Win32. dbd features AES-CBC-128 + HMAC-SHA1 encryption

    https://github.com/gitdurandal/dbd

## protocols

### sql

- Automatic SQL injection and database takeover tool

    https://github.com/sqlmapproject/sqlmap

### rdp

- Scans for accessibility tools backdoors via RDP

    https://github.com/linuz/Sticky-Keys-Slayer

## mitm

- Responder is a LLMNR, NBT-NS and MDNS poisoner, with built-in HTTP/SMB/MSSQL/FTP/LDAP rogue authentication server supporting NTLMv1/NTLMv2/LMv2, Extended Security NTLMSSP and Basic HTTP authentication.

    https://github.com/SpiderLabs/Responder

- The Browser Exploitation Framework Project

    https://github.com/beefproject/beef

## frameworks

- Exploits and Security Tools Framework

    https://github.com/C0reL0ader/EaST

## privilege escalation

- Automates elevation of privileges in Linux like systems

    https://github.com/guifre/Elevator

- PEASS - Privilege Escalation Awesome Scripts SUITE (with colors)

    https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite

## evasion

- A Simple Linux ELF Runtime Crypter. An unpacker by f0wl can be found at f0wl/ezuri_unpack.

    https://github.com/guitmz/ezuri

- Hide a process under Linux using the ld preloader

    https://github.com/gianlucaborello/libprocesshider

    https://sysdig.com/blog/hiding-linux-processes-for-fun-and-profit/

## reverse engineering

- UNIX-like reverse engineering framework and command-line toolset

    https://github.com/radareorg/radare2

    https://book.rada.re/first_steps/intro.html

- Exploit Development and Reverse Engineering with GDB Made Easy

    https://github.com/pwndbg/pwndbg

## ciphers

- Cyber Swiss Army Knife - a web app for encryption, encoding, compression and data analysis

    https://github.com/gchq/CyberChef

- Web app and framework offering modular conversion, encoding and encryption

    https://github.com/cryptii/cryptii

## bruteforcer

- Anonymize your hashcat formatted files for online cracking

    https://github.com/ShutdownRepo/hashonymize

- World's fastest and most advanced password recovery utility

    https://github.com/hashcat/hashcat

- Advanced offline password cracker, which supports hundreds of hash and cipher types, and runs on many operating systems, CPUs, GPUs, and even some FPGAs

    https://github.com/openwall/john

- Patator is a multi-purpose brute-forcer, with a modular design and a flexible usage.

    https://github.com/lanjelot/patator

### wordlists

- https://github.com/xajkep/wordlists

- https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists

Commit message:

pentest/tools: add http,graphql & xml goodies

pentest/tools.md, after:

# tools

Everything is from Linux perspective. It doens't mean some of them don't run on Windows but pentesting is generally performed from Linux. Of course once inside of Windows, there are Windows tools used and documented in a separate section below.

## training

- OWASP Security Shepherd

    https://github.com/OWASP/SecurityShepherd

- Metasploitable 2 & 3

        # msfadmin:msfadmin ;)
        wget http://downloads.metasploit.com/data/metasploitable/metasploitable-linux-2.0.0.zip

    https://github.com/rapid7/metasploitable3

## intelligence

- Semi-automatic OSINT framework and package manager

    https://github.com/kpcyrd/sn0int

- JARM is an active Transport Layer Security (TLS) server fingerprinting tool.

    https://github.com/salesforce/jarm

## web

- Waybackurls - Fetch all the URLs that the Wayback Machine knows about for a domain from archive.org

    https://github.com/tomnomnom/waybackurls

- LinkFinder - A python script that finds endpoints in JavaScript files

    https://github.com/GerbenJavado/LinkFinder

- Hakcheckurl -  Takes a list of URLs and returns their HTTP response codes

    https://github.com/hakluke/hakcheckurl

- Smuggler - An HTTP Request Smuggling / Desync testing tool written in Python 3

    https://github.com/defparam/smuggler

- Automatically find security vulnerabilities in your web applications while you are developing and testing your applications.

    https://github.com/zaproxy/zaproxy

- Templates Injection

    https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Server%20Side%20Template%20Injection#templates-injections

    https://github.com/epinna/tplmap

- Extract browser data

    https://github.com/moonD4rk/HackBrowserData

## remote shells

- dbd is a Netcat-clone, designed to be portable and offer strong encryption. It runs on Unix-like operating systems and on Microsoft Win32. dbd features AES-CBC-128 + HMAC-SHA1 encryption

    https://github.com/gitdurandal/dbd

## protocols

### http

- The following code was use to demonstrate HTTP Request Smuggling at NorthSec.

    https://github.com/GoSecure/request-smuggling-nsec-demo

### sql

- Automatic SQL injection and database takeover tool

    https://github.com/sqlmapproject/sqlmap

### rdp

- Scans for accessibility tools backdoors via RDP

    https://github.com/linuz/Sticky-Keys-Slayer

### graphql

- NSE Script for GraphQL Introspection Check

    https://github.com/dolevf/nmap-graphql-introspection-nse

## embedded into files

### xml

- BoobSnail allows generating XLM (Excel 4.0) macro. Its purpose is to support the RedTeam and BlueTeam in XLM macro generation. Features:

    https://github.com/STMSolutions/boobsnail

## mitm

- Responder is a LLMNR, NBT-NS and MDNS poisoner, with built-in HTTP/SMB/MSSQL/FTP/LDAP rogue authentication server supporting NTLMv1/NTLMv2/LMv2, Extended Security NTLMSSP and Basic HTTP authentication.

    https://github.com/SpiderLabs/Responder

- The Browser Exploitation Framework Project

    https://github.com/beefproject/beef

## frameworks

- Exploits and Security Tools Framework

    https://github.com/C0reL0ader/EaST

## privilege escalation

- Automates elevation of privileges in Linux like systems

    https://github.com/guifre/Elevator

- PEASS - Privilege Escalation Awesome Scripts SUITE (with colors)

    https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite

## evasion

- A Simple Linux ELF Runtime Crypter. An unpacker by f0wl can be found at f0wl/ezuri_unpack.

    https://github.com/guitmz/ezuri

- Hide a process under Linux using the ld preloader

    https://github.com/gianlucaborello/libprocesshider

    https://sysdig.com/blog/hiding-linux-processes-for-fun-and-profit/
    
- Hide your payload in DNS

    https://github.com/mhaskar/DNSStager
    
## password dumpers

- Create a minidump of TermService for clear text pw extraction

    https://github.com/jfmaes/SharpRDPDump

## reverse engineering

- UNIX-like reverse engineering framework and command-line toolset

    https://github.com/radareorg/radare2

    https://book.rada.re/first_steps/intro.html

- Exploit Development and Reverse Engineering with GDB Made Easy

    https://github.com/pwndbg/pwndbg

## ciphers

- Cyber Swiss Army Knife - a web app for encryption, encoding, compression and data analysis

    https://github.com/gchq/CyberChef

- Web app and framework offering modular conversion, encoding and encryption

    https://github.com/cryptii/cryptii

## bruteforcer

- Anonymize your hashcat formatted files for online cracking

    https://github.com/ShutdownRepo/hashonymize

- World's fastest and most advanced password recovery utility

    https://github.com/hashcat/hashcat

- Advanced offline password cracker, which supports hundreds of hash and cipher types, and runs on many operating systems, CPUs, GPUs, and even some FPGAs

    https://github.com/openwall/john

- Patator is a multi-purpose brute-forcer, with a modular design and a flexible usage.

    https://github.com/lanjelot/patator

### wordlists

- https://github.com/xajkep/wordlists

- https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists
