pentest/windows/tools.md, before:

# tools

## reconnnaissance

- The SNMP protocol is a stateless, datagram oriented protocol. An SNMP scanner is a program that sends SNMP requests to multiple IP addresses, trying different community strings and waiting for a reply. Unfortunately SNMP servers don't respond to requests with invalid community strings.

    https://github.com/trailofbits/onesixtyone

## get into the win's party

- Python library for Windows Remote Management (WinRM)

    https://github.com/diyan/pywinrm

## powershell

- PowerSploit - A PowerShell Post-Exploitation Framework

    https://github.com/ZeroDayLab/PowerSploit
    
- Automation for internal Windows Penetrationtest / AD-Security

    https://github.com/S3cur3Th1sSh1t/WinPwn

## evasion

- Takes a binary as input and splits it until it pinpoints that exact byte that Microsoft Defender will flag on, and then prints those offending bytes to the screen. This can be helpful when trying to identify the specific bad pieces of code in your tool/payload.

    https://github.com/matterpreter/DefenderCheck
    
- Sandbox evasion modules written in PowerShell, Python, Go, Ruby, C, C#, Perl, and Rust.

    https://github.com/Arvanaghi/CheckPlease
    
- Proof-of-concept obfuscation toolkit for C# post-exploitation tools

    https://github.com/h4wkst3r/InvisibilityCloak

## privilege escalation

- Local Privilege Escalation tool, from a Windows Service Accounts to NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM. RottenPotatoNG and its variants leverages the privilege escalation chain based on BITS service having the MiTM listener on 127.0.0.1:6666 and when you have SeImpersonate or SeAssignPrimaryToken privileges. During a Windows build review we found a setup where BITS was intentionally disabled and port 6666 was taken.

    https://github.com/ohpe/juicy-potato

    https://github.com/ivanitlearning/Juicy-Potato-x86
    
- Kernel Forge consists from two main components: the first library implements main functionality required to call an arbitrary kernel functions and the second library used to delegate arbitrary memory read write primitives: it can be local privileges escalation exploit or just some wrapper around 3-rd party WHQL signed loldriver. For this project I'm using WinIo.sys variation that provides full physical memory access and works just fine even with enabled HVCI:

    https://github.com/Cr4sh/KernelForge

## password dumping

- Source code for HppDLL - local password dumping using MsvpPasswordValidate hooks

    https://github.com/last-byte/HppDLL

Commit message:

pentest/win: add autordppwn & winexpsug to tools

pentest/windows/tools.md, after:

# tools

## reconnnaissance

- The SNMP protocol is a stateless, datagram oriented protocol. An SNMP scanner is a program that sends SNMP requests to multiple IP addresses, trying different community strings and waiting for a reply. Unfortunately SNMP servers don't respond to requests with invalid community strings.

    https://github.com/trailofbits/onesixtyone

## protocols

###  rdp

- AutoRDPwn is a post-exploitation framework created in Powershell, designed primarily to automate the Shadow attack on Microsoft Windows computers. This vulnerability (listed as a feature by Microsoft) allows a remote attacker to view his victim's desktop without his consent, and even control it on demand, using tools native to the operating system itself.

    https://github.com/JoelGMSec/AutoRDPwn

### winrm

- Python library for Windows Remote Management (WinRM)

    https://github.com/diyan/pywinrm

## powershell

- PowerSploit - A PowerShell Post-Exploitation Framework

    https://github.com/ZeroDayLab/PowerSploit
    
- Automation for internal Windows Penetrationtest / AD-Security

    https://github.com/S3cur3Th1sSh1t/WinPwn

## evasion

- Takes a binary as input and splits it until it pinpoints that exact byte that Microsoft Defender will flag on, and then prints those offending bytes to the screen. This can be helpful when trying to identify the specific bad pieces of code in your tool/payload.

    https://github.com/matterpreter/DefenderCheck
    
- Sandbox evasion modules written in PowerShell, Python, Go, Ruby, C, C#, Perl, and Rust.

    https://github.com/Arvanaghi/CheckPlease
    
- Proof-of-concept obfuscation toolkit for C# post-exploitation tools

    https://github.com/h4wkst3r/InvisibilityCloak

## privilege escalation

- Local Privilege Escalation tool, from a Windows Service Accounts to NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM. RottenPotatoNG and its variants leverages the privilege escalation chain based on BITS service having the MiTM listener on 127.0.0.1:6666 and when you have SeImpersonate or SeAssignPrimaryToken privileges. During a Windows build review we found a setup where BITS was intentionally disabled and port 6666 was taken.

    https://github.com/ohpe/juicy-potato

    https://github.com/ivanitlearning/Juicy-Potato-x86
    
- Kernel Forge consists from two main components: the first library implements main functionality required to call an arbitrary kernel functions and the second library used to delegate arbitrary memory read write primitives: it can be local privileges escalation exploit or just some wrapper around 3-rd party WHQL signed loldriver. For this project I'm using WinIo.sys variation that provides full physical memory access and works just fine even with enabled HVCI:

    https://github.com/Cr4sh/KernelForge

- This tool compares a targets patch levels against the Microsoft vulnerability database in order to detect potential missing patches on the target. It also notifies the user if there are public exploits and Metasploit modules available for the missing bulletins.

    Updated code: https://github.com/mvdvaart/Windows-Exploit-Suggester
    
    Original with Readme demo: https://github.com/AonCyberLabs/Windows-Exploit-Suggester

## password dumping

- Source code for HppDLL - local password dumping using MsvpPasswordValidate hooks

    https://github.com/last-byte/HppDLL
